## 🎬 (16) A new spec - CSS

- based on the Cascading html stylesheet with a few additions
- 1997ish
- had some amazing features
  - well at the time they were
  - height, width
  - floats (although not used to layout)
  - tables accepted way for layout
  - margins and paddings meant no more spacer gifs!!
  - box model
  - link styling... woot
- forward compatible - @ symbols and ignore unknown rules
- interestingly enough, support for contextual selectors (body ol li) was only added because Netscape already had a method for removing borders from images that were hyperlinks, and it seemed necessary to implement everything the popular browser could do
- all sorted? wrong!
- continued to build cool stuff
- chosen as the best candidate due to;

### stream-based

- On the web, the content and the style sheet can be combined into a presentation at a very late stage: in the user's computer. Current web browsers use progressive rendering to display information as it is downloaded from the web and it is important that the introduction of a style sheet does not slow down the presentation. Therefore, it is requirement that style sheets can be applied to documents as they are downloaded. One of the reviewed style sheet proposals has lent its name (Stream-based Style sheet Proposal) to this requirement.

### style combinations

- The added flexibility of later binding makes it possible for both users and authors to influence the presentation and it seems reasonable to make this a requirement for style sheet languages on the web. One way of supporting presentational negotiation is to combine style sheets from several sources.

### link styling

- Hyperlinked documents require link styling: Users have come to expect that browsers record those links they have visited in the past. One of the ways of differentiating between visited and unvisited hyperlinks is to style them differently. In order to present hyperlinks, the browser, therefore, must use information outside the documents and style sheets themselves.

### robustness

- Uncertain delivery requires robustness. The internet is a medium prone to failure and style sheet languages should, like other web mechanisms, be designed with this in mind. If a style sheet fails to appear, the content should still be presentable to the user. Robustness is therefore a requirement. One way to achieve robustness is to have redundant presentational fallback values. Fallback values must go beyond simply having default values for each property. For example, default values are not able to distinguish between inline and block-level elements.
